Baseline Fury Warrior Abilities
Offensive Abilities
 Whirlwind (WW) - primary multitarget attack which facilitates cleaving other attacks.
 Slam - initial rage spender, quickly replaced by other abilities.
 Shield Slam - early offensive ability, replaced upon specializing.
 Hamstring - minor snare.
 Victory Rush (VR) - very useful free heal after getting a kill.
 Execute (Exe) - Fury's version of Execute
 Heroic Throw (HT) - pitifully low damage ranged attack, only appropriate for pulling from a distance.
Utility Abilities
 Charge - primary mobility and gap closer.
 Pummel - low cooldown interrupt.
 Battle Shout (Shout) - worth ~5% damage for melee classes and Hunters.
 Berserker Rage (BzR) - preemptive or reactive CC removal.
 Taunt - draws aggro and generally gets you killed.

 Warrior Class Talents
Row 1
 Battle Stance (Battle/BStance) - basic offensive stance.
 Defensive Stance (Def/DStance) - basic defensive stance.
Row 2
 Fast Footwork - minor passive speed boost.
 War Machine - passive boost to rage generation with bonus on kill effects.
 Leeching Strikes - minor passive healing boost.
 Intervene - charge an ally!
Row 3
 Impending Victory (IV) - on-demand version of Victory Rush.
 Heroic Leap (Leap) - burst mobility skill, which does not immune ground effects like Blink, but can be useful for avoiding knockbacks.
 Storm Bolt - useful ranged stun on a relatively low cooldown.
Row 4
 Intimidating Shout - easily broken AoE fear which can be used as a pseudo interrupt.
 Second Wind - very rarely ignores environmental damage, but is usually broken by most effects.
 Frothing Berserker - inconsistent passive rage refund.
 Bounding Stride - allows more leaping.
 Pain and Gain - passive self-healing.
 Thunder Clap (TC) - a core part of Mountain Thane, but otherwise unused.
Row 5
 Cacophonous Roar - still broken far too easily in group content, only moderately viable in PvP.
 Menace - still easily broken in PvE, though moderately more useful due to the knockback.
 Spell Reflection (SR) - very useful, low cooldown damage reduction.
 Rallying Cry (Rally) - one of the few raid-wide defensive abilities.
 Shockwave - on demand AoE stun.
 Barbaric Training - only useful for Mountain Thane in multitarget.
Row 6
 Honed Reflexes - Reduces most defensive cooldowns by a very minor amount.
 Crushing Force - major damage increase for Slam.
 Bitter Immunity - highly situational due to its long cooldown.
 Overwhelming Rage - eases the burdens of rage management.
 Rumbling Earth - greatly increases the usefulness of Shockwave when using it regularly against groups.
 Reinforced Plates - synergizes with Armored to the Teeth to provide additional damage.
Row 7
 Wrecking Throw - highly effective against absorption shields, though rarely a major gain.
 Shattering Throw - immunity breaking version of Wrecking Throw, rarely used in PvE.
(Spell #390674) - only useful for Mountain Thane.
 Sidearm - minor passive damage increase.
 Double Time - a must-have mobility increase.
 Seismic Reverberation - very minor with Whirlwind, but highly effective for Mountain Thane.
 Concussive Blows - rather underwhelming due to only affecting the target which is interrupted, rather than increasing all damage dealt, though the reduced cooldown can be nice.
 Berserker Shout - seldom used group-wide fear breaker.
 Piercing Howl - major AoE snare, offset by its cooldown.
Row 8
 Cruel Strikes - a minor increase to Execute, smaller than it may seem.
 Wild Strikes - deceptively powerful due to the already high frequency of auto-attacks.
 Dual Wield Specialization - a must-have passive damage increase.
 Armored to the Teeth - near indispensable damage increase that helps gear scaling over the course of an expansion.
Row 9
 Thunderous Roar (Roar)- stronger than it may seem, due to its bleed damage being uncapped, allowing it to fully damage any number of extra targets.
 Avatar (Ava) - one of the main personal cooldowns that should always be taken.
 Champion's Spear (Spear) - aligns well with other 90s cooldowns, though not generally as useful as Thunderous Roar.
Row 10
 Uproar - keeps Thunderous Roar aligned with Avatar and other cooldowns, provides a noticeable overall damage increase, especially in multitarget.
 Thunderous Words - increases the damage of all bleeds only while Thunderous Roar is active, creating powerful burst windows that synergize well with Odyn's Fury.
 Berserker's Torment - highly effective and extends the duration of their normal counterparts.
 Titan's Torment - very strong AoE damage increase, which synergizes with other additional effects from Odyn's Fury.
 Piercing Challenge - a minor overall damage increase, though the extra rage generation is largely irrelevant.
 Champion's Might - a short but powerful damage window, which now activates on the target instead of requiring the player to stand within a specific location.

Fury Spec Talents
Passive
 Titan's Grip (TG) - passive bonus which allows dual wielding two-handed weapons.
 Mastery: Unshackled Fury - passive bonus which scales damage with Mastery.
Row 1
 Bloodthirst (BT) - Primary attack which forms the basis of the rotation.
Row 2
 Raging Blow (RB) - Primary attack which forms the basis of the rotation.
Row 3
 Frenzied Enrage - greatly increases the speed of Fury gameplay.
 Powerful Enrage - large damage increase without increasing the speed of Fury gameplay.
 Enraged Regeneration (ER) - Fury's primary defensive cooldown.
 Improved Execute - turns Execute into a rage generator.
Row 4
 Improved Bloodthirst - very small but worthwhile damage increase.
 Fresh Meat - useful leveling talent, but not very useful anywhere else.
 Warpaint - strong passive damage reduction.
 Invigorating Fury - situationally useful in PvP, but otherwise much worse than Warpaint.
 Sudden Death (SD) - allows more proc based gameplay, and can now stack up to two times.
 Cruelty - notable damage increase, though only while Enraged.
Row 5
 Focus in Chaos - removes the 19% dual wield miss penalty from auto-attacks, although they can still be parried.
 Rampage (Ramp) - the core of Fury's rotation, converting rage into damage and Enrage.
 Improved Raging Blow - critical talent which enables Raging Blow resets.
Row 6
 Single-Minded Fury - increase the effectiveness of dual wielding one-handed weapons, but not by enough to make them competitive with two-handed weapons.
 Cold Steel, Hot Blood (CSHB) - inflicts a powerful bleed, which can be applied to multiple targets via Whirlwind.
 Vicious Contempt (VC) - promotes Bloodthirst playstyles by greatly increasing its damage during the execute phase.
 Frenzy - semi-passive haste buff, with the downside of easily falling off when regularly switching targets.
 Hack and Slash (HnS/H&S) - very important reset mechanic for Raging Blow builds.
 Slaughtering Strikes - provides a significant damage boost for Rampage and greatly emphasizes Raging Blow's role in the rotation.
 Ashen Juggernaut - provides a significant damage boost when using Execute regularly.
 Improved Whirlwind - enables Fury's ability to cleave single target attacks onto other targets, forming the basis of its multitarget rotation.
Row 7
 Bloodborne - a large boost to bleed damage for builds that invest in it.
 Bloodcraze - creates strong synergy between Raging Blow and Bloodthirst, though it resets after any critical strike from Bloodthirst.
 Recklessness (Reck) - Fury's primary offensive cooldown, greatly increasing rage generation and the frequency of Rampage casts.
 Massacre - allows more frequent use of Execute.
 Wrath and Fury - a moderate damage and reset chance increase for Raging Blow.
 Meat Cleaver - reduces the amount of Whirlwind casts needed to maintain multitarget cleave.
Row 8
 Raging Armaments - minor mastery buff, with a very important Enrage extension, which helps keep Bloodthirst active in the rotation.
 Swift Strikes - a minor haste buff, with a small rage generation increase which adds up significantly over the course of a dungeon or encounter.
 Critical Thinking - a minor critical strike buff, with a small critical strike damage buff which is of much greater value in combination with Reckless Abandon.
Row 9
 Onslaught (Ons) - a moderately strong standalone attack, which helps fill extra GCDs in the rotation.
 Anger Management (AM) - reduces Recklessness down to an average of 45-50s cooldown, aligning rather well with Odyn's Fury.
 Reckless Abandon (RA) - causes Bloodthirst and Raging Blow to be replaced by stronger versions - Bloodbath and Crushing Blow, creating a powerful gameplay loop.
 Bladestorm (BS) - the premier multitarget damage ability, which has a reduced 4s duration and quickly generates a very large amount of rage for Fury.
 Ravager (Rav) - strong passive damage alternative to Bladestorm, more suitable against single targets.
 Odyn's Fury (OF) - a very powerful burst damage attack with a short lingering bleed.
Row 10
 Tenderize - greatly increases the value of Onslaught, both in jumpstarting the rotation and increasing the damage of Rampage.
 Unhinged - provides a deceptively powerful bonus to both single and multitarget damage during either Bladestorm or Ravager.
 Storm of Steel - gives Ravager a second charge, which is fairly important in most content.
 Unbridled Ferocity - randomly triggers Recklessness, though its low proc chance leaves it generally uncompetitive.
 Depths of Insanity - generally uncompetitive, due to its small impact on overall uptime.
 Dancing Blades - triggers a large auto-attack buff, which provides a bonus to Odyn's Fury's single target value.
 Titanic Rage - a minor damage buff, but jumpstarts the AoE rotation by auto-applying important buffs, with even greater synergy in combination with Titan's Torment.